# Abstract Control

This is the base class for [FormControl](FormControl.md), [FormGroup](FormGroup.md), and [FormArray](FormArray.md).

It provides some of the shared behavior that all controls and groups of controls have, like running validators, 
calculating status, and resetting state. It also defines  the properties that are shared between all sub-classes, 
like value, valid, and dirty. It shouldn't be instantiated directly.

## Overview
### Subclasses
* [FormControl](FormControl.md)
* [FormGroup](FormGroup.md)
* [FormArray](FormArray.md)

### Constructor
```ts
constructor(validator: ValidatorFn | null, asyncValidator: AsyncValidatorFn | null)
```
### Members
```ts
get value: any
```

```ts
validator: ValidatorFn | null
```

```ts
asyncValidator: AsyncValidatorFn | null
```

```ts
get parent: FormGroup | FormArray
```
The parent control.

```ts
get status: string
```
The validation status of the control. There are four possible validation statuses:

* VALID: control has passed all validation checks

* INVALID: control has failed at least one validation check

* PENDING: control is in the midst of conducting a validation check

* DISABLED: control is exempt from validation checks

These statuses are mutually exclusive, so a control cannot be both valid AND invalid or invalid AND disabled.

```ts
get valid: boolean
```
A control is valid when its `status === VALID`.

In order to have this status, the control must have passed all its validation checks.

```ts
get invalid: boolean
```
A control is invalid when its `status === INVALID`.

In order to have this status, the control must have failed at least one of its validation checks.

```ts
get pending: boolean
```
A control is pending when its `status === PENDING`.

In order to have this status, the control must be in the middle of conducting a validation check.

```ts
get disabled: boolean
```
A control is disabled when its `status === DISABLED`.

Disabled controls are exempt from validation checks and are not included in the aggregate value of their ancestor controls.

```ts
get enabled: boolean
```
A control is enabled as long as its `status !== DISABLED`.

In other words, it has a status of VALID, INVALID, or PENDING.
```ts
get errors: ValidationErrors | null
```
Returns any errors generated by failing validation. If there are no errors, it will return null.
```ts
get pristine: boolean
```
A control is `pristine` if the user has not yet changed the value in the UI.

Note that programmatic changes to a control's value will not mark it dirty.
```ts
get dirty: boolean
```
A control is `dirty` if the user has changed the value in the UI.

Note that programmatic changes to a control's value will not mark it dirty.
```ts
get touched: boolean
```
A control is marked `touched` once the user has triggered a `blur` event on it.
```ts
get untouched: boolean
```
A control is `untouched` if the user has not yet triggered a `blur` event on it.
```ts
get valueChanges: Observable<any>
```
Emits an event every time the value of the control changes, in the UI or programmatically.
```ts
get statusChanges: Observable<any>
```
Emits an event every time the validation status of the control is re-calculated.
```ts
get updateOn: FormHooks
```
Returns the update strategy of the AbstractControl (i.e. the event on which the control will update itself). Possible values: `'change'` (default) | `'blur'` | `'submit'`
```ts
setValidators(newValidator: ValidatorFn | ValidatorFn[] | null): void
```
Sets the synchronous validators that are active on this control. Calling this will overwrite any existing sync validators.
```ts
setAsyncValidators(newValidator: AsyncValidatorFn | AsyncValidatorFn[]): void
```
Sets the async validators that are active on this control. Calling this will overwrite any existing async validators.

```ts
clearValidators(): void
```
Empties out the sync validator list.

```ts
clearAsyncValidators(): void
```
Empties out the async validator list.
```ts
markAsTouched(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Marks the control as `touched`.

This will also mark all direct ancestors as `touched` to maintain the model.
```ts
markAsUntouched(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Marks the control as `untouched`.

If the control has any children, it will also mark all children as `untouched` to maintain the model, and re-calculate the `touched` status of all parent controls.
```ts
markAsDirty(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Marks the control as `dirty`.

This will also mark all direct ancestors as `dirty` to maintain the model.
```ts
markAsPristine(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Marks the control as `pristine`.

If the control has any children, it will also mark all children as `pristine` to maintain the model, and re-calculate the pristine status of all parent controls.
```ts
markAsPending(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Marks the control as pending.
```ts
disable(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
    emitEvent?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Disables the control. This means the control will be exempt from validation checks and excluded from the aggregate value of any parent. Its status is `DISABLED`.

If the control has children, all children will be `disabled` to maintain the model.
```ts
enable(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
    emitEvent?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Enables the control. This means the control will be included in validation checks and the aggregate value of its parent. Its status is re-calculated based on its value and its validators.

If the control has children, all children will be enabled.
```ts
setParent(parent: FormGroup | FormArray): void
```
```ts
setValue(value: any, options?: Object): void
```
Sets the value of the control. Abstract method (implemented in sub-classes).
```ts
patchValue(value: any, options?: Object): void
```
Patches the value of the control. Abstract method (implemented in sub-classes).
```ts
reset(value?: any, options?: Object): void
```
Resets the control. Abstract method (implemented in sub-classes).
```ts
updateValueAndValidity(opts: {
    onlySelf?: boolean;
    emitEvent?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Re-calculates the value and validation status of the control.

By default, it will also update the value and validity of its ancestors.
```ts
setErrors(errors: ValidationErrors | null, opts: {
    emitEvent?: boolean;
} = {}): void
```
Sets errors on a form control.

This is used when validations are run manually by the user, rather than automatically.

Calling setErrors will also update the validity of the parent control.

###Example
```ts
const login = new FormControl("someLogin");
login.setErrors({
  "notUnique": true
});
```
```ts
get(path: Array<string | number> | string): AbstractControl | null
```
Retrieves a child control given the control's name or path.

Paths can be passed in as an array or a string delimited by a dot.

To get a control nested within a person sub-group:
```ts
this.form.get('person.name');
```
-OR-
```ts
this.form.get(['person', 'name']);
```
```ts
getError(errorCode: string, path?: string[]): any
```
Returns error data if the control with the given path has the error specified. Otherwise returns null or undefined.

If no path is given, it checks for the error on the present control.
```ts
hasError(errorCode: string, path?: string[]): boolean
```
Returns true if the control with the given path has the error specified. Otherwise returns false.

If no path is given, it checks for the error on the present control.
```ts
get root: AbstractControl
```
Retrieves the top-level ancestor of this control.
